Hwabelle Amazon SP-API Setup — Standard Operating
Procedure (SOP)
Purpose: Step-by-step instructions for setting up Amazon Selling Partner API (SP-API) access so we can automate
Multi-Channel Fulfillment (MCF) orders from the website.
Who does this: The primary Seller Central account holder (the client).
Time estimate: ~15-30 minutes (plus Amazon review period of 1-3 business days).
What You'll Be Creating
By the end of this guide, you will have generated three credentials that we need for the integration:
Credential What It Is
Client ID Identifies your application to Amazon (like a username)
Client Secret A private key paired with the Client ID (like a password)
Refresh Token A long-lived token that lets our system make API calls on your behalf
[!CAUTION] Treat these credentials like passwords. Never share them over unsecured channels. We recommend
sharing via a secure method (e.g., a password manager share link, encrypted message, or a short-lived secure note
service like OneTimeSecret).
Phase 1 — Create a Solution Provider Portal (SPP) Account
[!NOTE] If you have already registered as a developer or can already see "Develop Apps" in your Seller Central
menu, skip to Phase 3.
1. Go to the Solution Provider Portal: https://developer.amazonservices.com
2. Click "Sign In" or "Create Account"
3. Sign in using your primary Amazon Seller Central credentials (the main email/password you use to log
into Seller Central)
4. If prompted, complete two-factor authentication (2FA)
[!TIP] Amazon is migrating all developer management to the Solution Provider Portal. If you still see the old
developer console at sellercentral.amazon.com/sellingpartner/developerconsole , that also works — but
the SPP is the new recommended path.
Phase 2 — Complete Your Developer Profile (Private Developer
Registration)
This registers your Amazon seller account as a "Private Developer" — meaning you're building an app that only your
own business will use. There is no fee for private developer registration.
Steps:
1. Sign in to the Solution Provider Portal
Alternatively: In Seller Central, go to Apps & Services → Develop Apps
2. If you see a "Register as a Developer" prompt, click it to begin
3. If you see Settings → Developer Profile in the SPP, go there
4. Fill out the Developer Profile form:
Contact Information
Organization name: Hwabelle (or your legal business entity name)
Contact email: Your primary business email
Contact phone: Your business phone number
Data Access
From the dropdown, select: "Private Developer: I build application(s) that integrate my own company
with Amazon Services APIs"
Roles
Select the following roles that apply to our MCF integration:
Role Select?
Direct-to-Consumer Shipping✅  Yes
Amazon Fulfillment ✅  Yes
[!IMPORTANT] At minimum, you need the "Amazon Fulfillment" (or "Direct-to-Consumer Shipping") role. This
grants access to the Fulfillment Outbound API which powers MCF.
Use Cases
Describe your use case. Here's a suggested description you can copy/paste:
"We are integrating our Hwabelle botanical e-commerce website with Amazon Multi-Channel Fulfillment (MCF) to
automatically create fulfillment orders for products stored in our FBA inventory. When a customer places an order
on our site, the system will use the Fulfillment Outbound API to submit the order to Amazon for picking, packing,
and shipping directly to the customer."
Security Controls
Describe how your data is protected. A simple but accurate response:
"API credentials are stored as encrypted environment variables in our secure cloud hosting platform (Supabase).
Credentials are never stored in source code or client-side applications. Access is restricted to authorized
development personnel only."
5. Check the box confirming you agree to the Solution Provider Agreement, Acceptable Use Policy, and Data
Protection Policy
6. Click "Register"
7. Wait for Amazon's review. You'll receive a case update via email (typically 1-3 business days). If Amazon
asks follow-up questions, respond within 5 days to prevent case closure.
Phase 3 — Register Your Application
Once your developer profile is approved, you can create your private app.
Steps:
1. Sign in to the Solution Provider Portal
Or in Seller Central: Apps & Services → Develop Apps
2. Click "Add new app client" (or "Register an application")
3. Fill in the application details:
Field Value
App name e.g., "Hwabelle MCF Integration"
API Type SP-API
App type Private
4. For IAM ARN — Amazon requires an AWS IAM Role ARN. Here are two options:
Option A: If we have already provided you an IAM ARN:
Paste the ARN we gave you (it looks like:
arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/SellingPartnerAPIRole )
Option B: If you need to create one yourself:
See the Appendix: Creating an IAM Role section at the bottom of this document
5. Click "Save and Exit" or "Register"
[!NOTE] Your application will be in "Draft" status. This is perfectly fine — private apps do not need to be
published. You can self-authorize a draft app.
Phase 4 — Self-Authorize Your Application (Generate the Refresh Token)
This is the critical step where you generate the Refresh Token.
Steps:
1. Sign in to the Solution Provider Portal
Or in Seller Central: Apps & Services → Develop Apps
2. Find your newly created app in the list
3. Look for an "Authorize app" button next to your app
4. Click "Authorize app"
5. A Refresh Token will appear on screen.
[!CAUTION] Copy this token immediately and save it securely! This is your one chance to see it displayed. While
generating a new refresh token doesn't invalidate the old one, it's best practice to copy it right away.
6. Store the Refresh Token in a secure location (password manager, encrypted note, etc.)
[!IMPORTANT] To self-authorize a Seller Central account, you must be the Primary User of that account.
Secondary users cannot self-authorize.
Phase 5 — Retrieve Your Client ID and Client Secret
Steps:
1. Sign in to the Solution Provider Portal
2. In the top navigation, select "Develop Apps"
3. Find your application and click "Edit app" (or "View")
4. Click "View" under "LWA credentials" for your application
5. You will see:
Client Identifier (Client ID) — starts with amzn1.application-oa2-client.
Client Secret — a long alphanumeric string
6. Copy both values and save them securely
Phase 6 — Send Us the Credentials
Once you have all three values, please share them with us securely:
Credential Example Format
Client ID amzn1.application-oa2-client.abc123def456...
Client Secret amzn1.oa2-cs.v1.abc123def456ghi789...
Refresh Token Atzr|IQEBLzAtAh...
Recommended Secure Sharing Methods:
✅  OneTimeSecret.com — Create a secret link that self-destructs after being read once
✅  Password manager share — Use a service like 1Password or LastPass to share securely
✅  Encrypted email — If your email supports encryption
❌  Do NOT send these in a regular email, text message, or chat
Quick-Reference Checklist
Use this to track your progress:
 Phase 1: Created / signed into Solution Provider Portal account
 Phase 2: Completed Developer Profile (Private Developer)
 Phase 2: Received approval email from Amazon
 Phase 3: Registered a new Private application
 Phase 4: Self-authorized the app → Refresh Token copied ✅
 Phase 5: Retrieved Client ID ✅
 Phase 5: Retrieved Client Secret ✅
 Phase 6: Sent all 3 credentials to developer via secure method
Appendix: Creating an IAM Role (If Needed)
[!NOTE] You only need this section if we haven't already provided you an IAM ARN. In most cases, we will
create the IAM role and give you the ARN to paste during Phase 3.
Creating a Minimal IAM Role in AWS:
1. Go to the AWS IAM Console
2. Click "Roles" → "Create role"
3. Select "Another AWS account" as the trusted entity
4. For Account ID, enter your own AWS account ID
5. Click "Next: Permissions" → Skip adding policies (no permissions needed)
6. Name the role (e.g., SellingPartnerAPIRole )
7. Click "Create role"
8. Click on the newly created role and copy the Role ARN
9. Use this ARN when registering your app in Phase 3
Adding the Trust Policy:
After creating the role, update its trust policy to allow STS AssumeRole:
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID:root"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}
Replace YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID  with your actual AWS account ID.
Appendix: Seller Central Permissions for Secondary Users
If you are granting a secondary user (e.g., your developer/agency) access to manage these tools, the following
permissions must be enabled by the primary account holder:
Required Permissions:
Category Permission Setting
FBA / MCF Manage FBA Inventory ✅  View & Edit
FBA / MCF Manage FBA Shipments ✅  View & Edit
FBA / MCF Manage Multi-Channel Fulfillment✅  View & Edit
Orders Manage Orders ✅  View & Edit
Developer Develop Apps (Developer Central)✅  View & Edit
Developer Manage Apps & Services ✅  View & Edit
[!WARNING] If "Develop Apps" is not listed as a permission option, the primary account holder may need to first
register as a developer (Phase 2) from their own login. Once they register, the permission option will appear for
secondary users.
How to Set Permissions:
1. Log into Seller Central with the primary/owner account
2. Go to ⚙  Settings → User Permissions
3. Click "Manage Permissions" next to the secondary user
4. Enable all permissions listed above
5. Click "Save Changes"
Troubleshooting
Issue Solution
Can't find "Develop
Apps" in Seller Central
Go directly to https://sellercentral.amazon.com/sellingpartner/developerconsole or
use the Solution Provider Portal at https://solutionproviderportal.amazon.com/
Registration says
"pending review"
This is normal. Amazon reviews private developer registrations within 1-3 business
days. Check your email for case updates.
Amazon asked follow-
up questions Respond within 5 days or your case will be auto-closed.
Can't self-authorize You must be the Primary User of the Seller Central account. Secondary users cannot
self-authorize.
Refresh Token not
appearing Make sure the app has been saved/registered first. Try refreshing the page.
"Unauthorized" errors
after providing
credentials
Double-check that the Client ID, Client Secret, and Refresh Token are all from the
same application.
Reference Links
Solution Provider Portal
Register as a Private Developer (Amazon Docs)
Self-Authorization (Amazon Docs)
View Application Information and Credentials
Register Your Application
SP-API Roles